1. POULTRY FARM BIOSECURITY MEASURES
1.1 The entire perimeter of the farm must be completely fenced.
1.2 All production areas must be completely fenced to prevent unauthorized entry. There
shall only be one access into a production area for vehicles and persons except for an
exit gate (which must remain locked) for the disposal of poultry manure.
1.3 The entrance to a production area shall be equipped with effective vehicular/personnel
disinfection facilities.
1.4 All persons entering the production areas must undergo appropriate bio-sanitation and
outfitted with appropriate protective farm clothing, including boots and face masks to
prevent the introduction of diseases into the farm.
1.5 Foot-dips with sufficient and appropriate disinfectant for disinfection shall be provided
at the entrances of each poultry house. The disinfectant should also be changed
regularly to maintain its effectiveness.
1.6 Poultry houses shall be effectively bird-proofed using wire-mesh nettings or equivalent.
1.7 Facilities shall be available for disinfecting poultry crates, vehicles and equipment
associated with the transport of birds. The farm must ensure that poultry crates brought
onto the farm are clean and free of poultry fecal material.
1.8 No poultry, eggs or poultry products of any kind from outside the farm shall be brought
into the farm premises.
1.9 Replacement chicks should undergo quarantine in facilities that are managed to
ensure effective segregation, including bio-sanitation of personnel working in
quarantine, so as to prevent spread of diseases from the quarantined chicks.
1.10 The farm must have a system for the proper disposal of dead birds, manure, and other
wastes from the farm as required by the SFA or other relevant authorities. The farm
must also have an effective pest control programme in place.
1.11 The farm is prohibited to introduce or rear birds and animals in the farm (other than the
replacement chicks / sentinel chickens).
1.12 Access to the production area is restricted to farm workers and essential business
visitors only e.g. visits by business investors/partners, and contractors for repair and
maintenance of farm equipment. All the above biosecurity and biosanitation
requirements apply.
1.13 The farm buildings used to store feed and eggs should be maintained properly to
prevent the entry of wild birds, pests and animals.
1.14 Farms must be free from unwanted vegetation, debris and plants such as fruit trees
that could attract or harbor pests and wild birds.
1.15 The farm must source birds or hatching eggs from sources tested and found to be free
from Salmonella enteritidis, and no case of disease based on the list stipulated in the
Veterinary Conditions for importation of day-old-chicks and hatching eggs, or any
notifiable disease has been diagnosed on the source farm for the last six (6) months.
This includes sourcing and transferring from farms in Singapore.

2. POULTRY FARM BIOSEGREGATION MEASURES
2.1 Farms must have egg collection areas that are effectively separated from the
production areas.
2.1.1 Egg room must be located outside the production area.
2.1.2 There has to be physical demarcation in the Egg room so that egg sorting and
storage/collection are carried out in two separate areas.
2.2 Farms cannot borrow or share equipment with other poultry farms.
2.3 Farm staff and workers cannot work on other poultry farms.
2.4 All vehicles entering the production area must be thoroughly washed and disinfected.
2.5 Farms must have garbage collection points that are outside the farm premises and
away from the production areas.
2.6 Farms must use dedicated poultry manure collection vehicles. The vehicles must not
visit any other layer farm on its collection rounds on the same day.
2.7 Farms must use feed delivery vehicles that only send feed to one layer farm. The
vehicles must not visit any other layer farm on its rounds (on the same day).
2.8 Farms must use spent hen collection vehicles that only collect spent hens from one
layer farm. After collection, the vehicles must proceed directly to the poultry
slaughterhouse and cannot collect spent hens from any other layer farm on the same
day. 

3. EGG TRACEABILITY
3.1 For hen layer farms, eggs sold to supermarkets, markets and retail shops must be
individually labelled in a conspicuous and prominent position that must be clearly
legible with a farm and production code.
3.2 For hen layer farms, eggs sold to supermarkets, markets and retail shops must be
individually labelled with food dye applied with ink-jet equipment or applied with a laser
on the egg shell surfaces.
3.3 Records of egg production and processing must be kept to allow traceability of the
product to its date and location of production or processing.
3.4 Any failures to achieve the above condition (Egg Traceability Section – S/N 1 to 3),
must be reported to SFA as soon as practicable. 